---
title 		: Essential Studio for AngularJS 2016 Vol 3 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for AngularJS 2016 Vol 3 Release Notes
platform: AngularJS
---

# Essential Studio for AngularJS Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2016_vol_3 version=site.version.2016_vol_3  %} 





## Common

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#161242 - When given the scope variable in expression format, value does not update in scope for this issue we had fixed.

* \#160280 - In angular, when set the maxlength attribute for Textbox control maxlength validation does not works issue has been fixed.

* \#160621 - In angular, model can provide directly in angular directive and also it can configure for individual properties.

* \#160799, \#160621, \#161164 - Two way binding is now working for angularJS component after binding model to the plugin.

* \#159368 – Inconsistent numeric,currency and percentage values will not bind in angular scope when using German locale.
## ejFileExplorer

### Features
{:#ejfileexplorer-features}

* \#161173 - The FileExplorer allows to access the shared folder which is connected via local area network.

* \#161660 - In FileExplorer, we have provided the API `allowKeyboardNavigation` to enable/disable the Keyboard Navigation.

* \#140098, \#141095, \#153296, \#153869 - The FileExplorer allows files to be moved from one folder to another by using drag and drop. It also supports uploading a file by dragging it from Windows Explorer to a folder in the FileExplorer control.

* \#155542 - The FileExplorer allows thumbnail images to be compressed on the server side and loaded into the FileExplorer layout to improve performance when working with large size images.

* \#159186 - Provided the option to customize the ContextMenu items in FileExplorer control.

* \#159186 - Provided API `allowSearchOnTyping` to perform the search action only on `Enter` key press. 

* We have provided the sort by option to sort the files and folders in the FileExplorer in Tile / Large Icons views.


## ejKanban

### Features
{:#ejkanban-features}

* Multiple key binding support has been provided for Kanban columns to allow the transition of multiple status.
* Provided support for Drag and Drop the cards across swim lanes.
* Provided workflow support to a set of transitions that a card moves through during its process cycle for Kanban.
* Provided support to prevent dragging and dropping on particular column.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#160506-Kanban column total count issues are resolved.
* \#162948-`RankId` of undefined drag and drop issue has been resolved with primary key as GUID data-type.


### Breaking Changes
{:#ejkanban-breaking-changes}

* `menuItem` property removed from `contextMenuSettings.menuItems`.User can give [`menuItems`](https://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejkanban#members:contextmenusettings-menuitems) as string of array.
* Kanban card layout structure has been changed. 

## ejRibbon

### Features
{:#ejribbon-features}

* Adaptive support has been provided to Ribbon to adjust its size according to the screen size on which it renders.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejribbon-bug-fixes}

* \#162855-Custom div content is only will show with the Ribbon is pinned



## ejSchedule

### Features
{:#ejschedule-features}

* \#156158 - Scheduler is now provided with an option to show/hide the timezone fields in an appointment window using the API `showTimeZoneFields`. It also provides another API namely, `applyTimeOffset` to include or exclude the time offset calculation on appointments based on the timezones.

* \#150560 - PDF Export feature in Scheduler has been enhanced with additional options to export it along with the custom dates, blockout settings features and also allowing it to show/hide the header bar, all-day row and time scale options.

* A new method namely `notifyChanges` has been introduced to handle the Scheduler CRUD operations while using SignalR concept.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#163043 – Scheduler shows correct week range now while using `firstDayOfWeek` property.
* \#162359, \#162951 – Extra parameter is added to denote the recurrence appointment type, while it is being edited or deleted.
* \#163238, \#163570 - Now the string/float values can be set for an appointment Id and parentId fields.
* \#158342 – An issue with the `reminder` event not triggering in client-side has been fixed.
* \#159321 - An issue with the recurrence rule value not updating properly, when using the custom appointment window has been fixed.
* \#160203 – An issue with appointments not displaying in Scheduler, while setting resource `groupId` as alphanumeric has been fixed.
* \#160267 – Misalignment with Date header and work-cells, when `timeScale` is set as false and `cellWidth` property set with some specific value has been fixed.
* \#161092 – Appointment recurrence rule is updating correctly, as per the values passed to the `recurrenceExDate` field.
* \#160403 - Multiple instances of the recurrence editor can be rendered properly on the same page.
* \#160704 – Dropdown and Datepicker fields within the recurrence editor are working correctly in the Firefox versions 46 and 47.
* \#160436 – All the appointments that lies within the selected date range are getting displayed correctly in Agenda view.
* \#154801, \#160276, \#160770 - Schedule is rendering properly, when the `firstDayOfWeek` property is used with different cultures.

## ejSpreadsheet

### Features
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* Provided support for read-only mode.
* Provided support for context menu customization.
* Improved the initial rendering performance.
## ejTreeView

### Features
{:#ejtreeview-features}

* Provided option in `collapseAll`/`expandAll` method to expand /collapse nodes up to specific level.

* \#156288 - Provided multiple node selection support in TreeView control.

* \#133614, \#158321 - Provided option to drag multiple nodes in TreeView control.

* \#160961 - Provided option to get the child nodes of the specific node.

## RichTextEditor

### Features 
{:#richtexteditor-features}

* The RTE provides `Custom execute command` that execute selection, range and cursor based commands for all the browser. Since the default execute command behaves inconsistencies across browsers.
## WaitingPopup

### Features
{:#waitingpopup-features}

* Provided support for WaitingPopup element `append to` the given container element. 
